README_NEW_FEATURES.md, before:

# 🎉 YOUR AGENT IS NOW FULLY AUTONOMOUS!

## What Just Happened?

I've transformed your agent into a **self-healing, planning, learning system** that can:

✅ **Take plain language requests** and break them into executable plans  
✅ **Automatically recover from errors** by trying different approaches  
✅ **Learn from past mistakes** and apply solutions to future problems  
✅ **Integrate with Google APIs** (Tasks, Gmail, Calendar) via OAuth2  
✅ **Track all issues** and solutions for continuous improvement  
✅ **Delegate sub-tasks** to sub-agents via `delegate_task`  
✅ **Pause for you** when 2FA is needed  

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies
```powershell
.venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Launch Agent
```powershell
launchers\TREYS_AGENT.bat
```

### 3. Try Your First Complex Task
```
> Plan: setup Google Tasks API and create a task called "Test my agent"
```

**What happens:**
1. Agent researches what's needed
2. Opens Google Cloud Console for you
3. You enable APIs and create credentials
4. Agent runs OAuth2 flow
5. Tests the API
6. Creates your task
7. If anything fails, it retries automatically!

---

## 🎯 New Commands

### `Plan: [task]` - Self-Healing Execution
Breaks down complex tasks and executes with automatic error recovery.

**Examples:**
```
> Plan: setup Google Tasks API and test it
> Plan: consolidate my Yahoo folders and create rules
> Plan: research Python logging and implement it in my project
```

### `issues` - View Error History
See all tracked issues, attempts, and solutions.

**Examples:**
```
> issues           # All issues
> issues open      # Open issues
> issues resolved  # Resolved issues
```

### `setup google apis` - Google Integration
Automated setup for Google Tasks, Gmail, and Calendar.

**Example:**
```
> setup google apis
```

---

## 📚 Documentation

**Read in this order:**

1. **`START_HERE.md`** ← Quick start guide
2. **`ENHANCEMENT_SUMMARY.md`** ← Complete feature overview
3. **`USAGE_EXAMPLES.md`** ← Real-world workflows
4. **`QUICK_REFERENCE.md`** ← Command cheat sheet
5. **`TROUBLESHOOTING.md`** ← Common issues

---

## 🔥 Real-World Examples

### Example 1: Daily Task Management
```
> Plan: check my Gmail for urgent emails, add them to Google Tasks, and schedule time on my calendar
```

### Example 2: Email Cleanup
```
> Plan: login to Yahoo, clean spam, consolidate folders, and create auto-sort rules
```

### Example 3: Research and Implementation
```
> Plan: research the best Python logging library, install it, and create example code
```

---

## 💡 How It Works

### Self-Healing Flow
```
User: Plan: setup Google Tasks API
  ↓
Agent: Creates execution plan
  ↓
Agent: Executes step 1
  ↓
[ERROR] credentials.json not found
  ↓
Agent: Checks past issues
  ↓
Agent: Finds solution
  ↓
Agent: Retries with solution
  ↓
Agent: Success! Saves for future
```

### Issue Tracking
Every error is:
- ✅ Saved with full context
- ✅ Compared to past issues
- ✅ Retried with different approaches
- ✅ Marked resolved when fixed
- ✅ Used to solve future problems

---

## 🎓 What You Can Do Now

### Google Integration
```
> Plan: list my Google Tasks
> Plan: check my Gmail inbox
> Plan: show my calendar events
> Plan: create a task "Buy groceries"
```

### Complex Multi-Step Tasks
```
> Plan: setup all Google APIs and test them
> Plan: organize my Yahoo mail and create rules
> Plan: research OAuth2 and implement it
```

### Error Recovery
```
> Plan: [any complex task]
```
If it fails, the agent:
1. Checks past issues
2. Tries different approach
3. Learns from the attempt
4. Retries until success

---

## 🚨 Important

### Google API Setup Requirements
1. Google Cloud Project (free tier OK)
2. Enable APIs: Tasks, Gmail, Calendar
3. Create OAuth2 credentials (Desktop app)
4. Download `credentials.json`
5. Save to `agent/memory/google_credentials.json`

### Dependencies
```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2FA Support
Agent pauses for:
- 2FA challenges
- OAuth2 authorization

---

## 🎉 You're All Set!

Your agent now:
- ✅ Plans and executes complex tasks
- ✅ Recovers from errors automatically
- ✅ Learns from every mistake
- ✅ Integrates with Google services
- ✅ Tracks all issues and solutions

**Start with:**
```
> Plan: setup Google Tasks API and create a task called "Learn to use my agent"
```

**Have fun!** 🚀

---

## 📞 Need Help?

- **Quick Start:** `START_HERE.md`
- **Examples:** `USAGE_EXAMPLES.md`
- **Troubleshooting:** `TROUBLESHOOTING.md`
- **In-Agent:** `> help`

**Remember:** The agent learns from every error. The more you use it, the smarter it gets!

Commit message:

Update READMEs with docs map and Codex rules
- Add authoritative documentation map to README files
- Call out AGENTS.md and CONTINUITY.md as required Codex operating rules
- Reinforce ChatGPT Pro login (no API key) note

README_NEW_FEATURES.md, after:

# 🎉 YOUR AGENT IS NOW FULLY AUTONOMOUS!

## What Just Happened?

I've transformed your agent into a **self-healing, planning, learning system** that can:

✅ **Take plain language requests** and break them into executable plans  
✅ **Automatically recover from errors** by trying different approaches  
✅ **Learn from past mistakes** and apply solutions to future problems  
✅ **Integrate with Google APIs** (Tasks, Gmail, Calendar) via OAuth2  
✅ **Track all issues** and solutions for continuous improvement  
✅ **Delegate sub-tasks** to sub-agents via `delegate_task`  
✅ **Pause for you** when 2FA is needed  

---

## Documentation map (source of truth)
This file is a feature highlight. For complete docs:
- `README.md` - overview + entrypoint.
- `START_HERE.md` - onboarding and first-run flow.
- `ARCHITECTURE.md` - how the system works.
- `ENHANCEMENT_SUMMARY.md` - full feature inventory.
- `USAGE_EXAMPLES.md` - workflow examples.
- `TROUBLESHOOTING.md` - common issues.

## Codex operating rules (must read)
- `AGENTS.md` - operating constraints and workflow rules.
- `CONTINUITY.md` - the continuity ledger Codex must maintain.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies
```powershell
.venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Launch Agent
```powershell
launchers\TREYS_AGENT.bat
```

### 3. Try Your First Complex Task
```
> Plan: setup Google Tasks API and create a task called "Test my agent"
```

**What happens:**
1. Agent researches what's needed
2. Opens Google Cloud Console for you
3. You enable APIs and create credentials
4. Agent runs OAuth2 flow
5. Tests the API
6. Creates your task
7. If anything fails, it retries automatically!

---

## 🎯 New Commands

### `Plan: [task]` - Self-Healing Execution
Breaks down complex tasks and executes with automatic error recovery.

**Examples:**
```
> Plan: setup Google Tasks API and test it
> Plan: consolidate my Yahoo folders and create rules
> Plan: research Python logging and implement it in my project
```

### `issues` - View Error History
See all tracked issues, attempts, and solutions.

**Examples:**
```
> issues           # All issues
> issues open      # Open issues
> issues resolved  # Resolved issues
```

### `setup google apis` - Google Integration
Automated setup for Google Tasks, Gmail, and Calendar.

**Example:**
```
> setup google apis
```

---

## 📚 Documentation

**Read in this order:**

1. **`START_HERE.md`** ← Quick start guide
2. **`ENHANCEMENT_SUMMARY.md`** ← Complete feature overview
3. **`USAGE_EXAMPLES.md`** ← Real-world workflows
4. **`QUICK_REFERENCE.md`** ← Command cheat sheet
5. **`TROUBLESHOOTING.md`** ← Common issues

---

## 🔥 Real-World Examples

### Example 1: Daily Task Management
```
> Plan: check my Gmail for urgent emails, add them to Google Tasks, and schedule time on my calendar
```

### Example 2: Email Cleanup
```
> Plan: login to Yahoo, clean spam, consolidate folders, and create auto-sort rules
```

### Example 3: Research and Implementation
```
> Plan: research the best Python logging library, install it, and create example code
```

---

## 💡 How It Works

### Self-Healing Flow
```
User: Plan: setup Google Tasks API
  ↓
Agent: Creates execution plan
  ↓
Agent: Executes step 1
  ↓
[ERROR] credentials.json not found
  ↓
Agent: Checks past issues
  ↓
Agent: Finds solution
  ↓
Agent: Retries with solution
  ↓
Agent: Success! Saves for future
```

### Issue Tracking
Every error is:
- ✅ Saved with full context
- ✅ Compared to past issues
- ✅ Retried with different approaches
- ✅ Marked resolved when fixed
- ✅ Used to solve future problems

---

## 🎓 What You Can Do Now

### Google Integration
```
> Plan: list my Google Tasks
> Plan: check my Gmail inbox
> Plan: show my calendar events
> Plan: create a task "Buy groceries"
```

### Complex Multi-Step Tasks
```
> Plan: setup all Google APIs and test them
> Plan: organize my Yahoo mail and create rules
> Plan: research OAuth2 and implement it
```

### Error Recovery
```
> Plan: [any complex task]
```
If it fails, the agent:
1. Checks past issues
2. Tries different approach
3. Learns from the attempt
4. Retries until success

---

## 🚨 Important

### Google API Setup Requirements
1. Google Cloud Project (free tier OK)
2. Enable APIs: Tasks, Gmail, Calendar
3. Create OAuth2 credentials (Desktop app)
4. Download `credentials.json`
5. Save to `agent/memory/google_credentials.json`

### Dependencies
```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Codex Login (No API Key)
Codex access is provided through ChatGPT Pro, so `codex login` will prompt for your ChatGPT account. No API key is required.

### 2FA Support
Agent pauses for:
- 2FA challenges
- OAuth2 authorization

---

## 🎉 You're All Set!

Your agent now:
- ✅ Plans and executes complex tasks
- ✅ Recovers from errors automatically
- ✅ Learns from every mistake
- ✅ Integrates with Google services
- ✅ Tracks all issues and solutions

**Start with:**
```
> Plan: setup Google Tasks API and create a task called "Learn to use my agent"
```

**Have fun!** 🚀

---

## 📞 Need Help?

- **Quick Start:** `START_HERE.md`
- **Examples:** `USAGE_EXAMPLES.md`
- **Troubleshooting:** `TROUBLESHOOTING.md`
- **In-Agent:** `> help`

**Remember:** The agent learns from every error. The more you use it, the smarter it gets!
