REVIEW_AND_ACTION_PLAN.md, before:

# 🎯 TREY'S AGENT - Complete Review & Action Plan

## ✅ What I Found

### Architecture Overview
Your agent has a **sophisticated multi-mode architecture**:

1. **Execute Mode** - Instant playbook execution (no LLM needed)
2. **Learn Mode** - Records your actions as reusable playbooks
3. **Autonomous Mode** - True AI agent with dynamic replanning
4. **Research Mode** - Deep research with iterative refinement
5. **Collab Mode** - Interactive planning and strategy
6. **Mail Mode** - Supervised email management

### Current Status

#### ✅ Working Components
- Agent launches successfully
- Codex CLI integration (`codex.ps1` detected)
- Python virtual environment configured
- Core dependencies installed
- Credential management system
- Playbook recording/replay system
- Memory management (SQLite + JSON)
- Browser automation framework (Playwright)
- Desktop automation (PyAutoGUI)

#### ⚠️ Needs Configuration
1. **Codex CLI Authentication** - Required for LLM features
2. **Playwright Browsers** - Required for web automation
3. **Environment Variables** - Customize behavior
4. **Initial Learning** - Record your first tasks

---

## 🚀 Immediate Action Items

### 1. Authenticate Codex CLI (5 minutes)
```powershell
codex login
```
This connects the agent to your ChatGPT Pro account.

### 2. Install Playwright Browsers (5 minutes)
```powershell
.venv\Scripts\activate
playwright install chromium
```
This enables web automation features.

### 3. Review Configuration (5 minutes)
Open `.env` and customize:
- `CODEX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` - How long to wait for responses
- `AUTO_MAX_STEPS` - Max steps in autonomous mode
- `AGENT_MEMORY_EMBED_MODEL` - Embedding model for long-term memory

### 4. Test Basic Functionality (10 minutes)
```powershell
launchers\TREYS_AGENT.bat
```

Then try:
```
> help
> create a hello world python script
> exit
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Created

I've created **4 comprehensive guides** for you:

### 1. `AGENT_SETUP_GUIDE.md` (Complete Guide)
- Full architecture explanation
- Detailed setup instructions
- All configuration options
- Troubleshooting guide
- Best practices
- Example use cases

### 2. `QUICK_REFERENCE.md` (Cheat Sheet)
- Quick command reference
- Common tasks
- Environment variables
- Tips and tricks

### 3. `SETUP_CHECKLIST.md` (Step-by-Step)
- Pre-flight checklist
- Verification tests
- Configuration checklist
- Troubleshooting steps
- Security checklist

### 4. `.env` (Configuration File)
- Pre-configured with recommended settings
- Commented explanations
- Ready to customize

---

## 🎓 Recommended Learning Path

### Phase 1: Learning Mode (Week 1-2)
**Goal**: Teach the agent your workflows

**Tasks**:
1. Learn simple tasks:
   ```
   > Learn: open notepad
   > Learn: organize downloads folder
   ```

2. Save credentials for sites you use:
   ```
   > Cred: yahoo
   > Cred: github
   ```

3. Test playbook execution:
   ```
   > open notepad
   > organize downloads
   ```

**Why**: Playbooks run instantly without LLM calls. Once learned, tasks are fast and reliable.

### Phase 2: Supervised Autonomy (Week 3-4)
**Goal**: Build trust with autonomous mode

**Tasks**:
1. Simple autonomous tasks:
   ```
   > Auto: create a python calculator
   > Auto: organize my desktop files
   ```

2. Review outputs and adjust prompts as needed

3. Use research mode:
   ```
   > Research: Python best practices
   ```

**Why**: You'll see how the agent thinks and plans. Build confidence before full autonomy.

### Phase 3: Full Autonomy (Week 5+)
**Goal**: Let the agent work independently

**Tasks**:
1. Complex multi-step tasks:
   ```
   > Auto: research async Python, create a web scraper, and document it
   ```

2. Business automation:
   ```
   > Auto: analyze my project structure and suggest improvements
   ```

**Why**: Maximum productivity. The agent handles complex tasks while you focus on high-level work.

---

## 🎯 Your Use Cases

Based on your requirements, here's how to use each mode:

### 1. Business Automation
**Best Mode**: Learn + Execute
```
> Learn: generate weekly sales report
> Learn: send status update email
> Learn: backup project files
```

Once learned, run instantly:
```
> generate weekly sales report
> send status update
```

### 2. Coding Projects
**Best Mode**: Autonomous + Research
```
> Research: best practices for REST API design
> Auto: create a REST API with authentication
> Auto: add unit tests to my API
```

### 3. Study Systems
**Best Mode**: Research + Collab
```
> Research: effective study techniques for programming
> Collab: create a study plan for learning machine learning
> Auto: organize my study materials by topic
```

### 4. Desktop Commands
**Best Mode**: Learn + Execute
```
> Learn: organize my downloads
> Learn: backup important files
> Learn: clean temp folders
```

### 5. Internet Browsing
**Best Mode**: Learn + Autonomous
```
> Learn: login to school portal
> Learn: download assignments from Canvas
> Auto: research and summarize latest AI news
```

---

## 🔧 Configuration Recommendations

### For Your Use Case

```env
# === PERFORMANCE ===
CODEX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=600          # 10 minutes for complex tasks
CODEX_REASONING_EFFORT=medium      # Balance speed and quality

# === AUTONOMOUS MODE ===
AUTO_MAX_STEPS=30                  # Enough for complex tasks
AUTO_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=600           # 10 minutes total
AUTO_PLANNER_MODE=auto             # Dynamic replanning
AUTO_ENABLE_WEB_GUI=1              # Enable browser automation
AUTO_ENABLE_DESKTOP=1              # Enable desktop control
AUTO_ALLOW_HUMAN_ASK=1             # Agent can ask questions

# === MEMORY ===
AGENT_MEMORY_EMBED_MODEL=all-MiniLM-L6-v2
AGENT_MEMORY_FAISS_DISABLE=0

# === BEHAVIOR ===
TREYS_AGENT_DEFAULT_MODE=execute   # Default action mode on confirmation
TREYS_AGENT_PROMPT_ON_AMBIGUOUS=0  # Don't ask, just execute
```

---

## 🔐 Security Recommendations

### Credential Management
1. **Save credentials for frequently used sites**:
   ```
   > Cred: yahoo
   > Cred: github
   > Cred: school
   ```

2. **Keep these files secure**:
   - `agent/memory/credential_store.json`
   - `agent/memory/credential_key.key`

3. **Backup regularly** (encrypted)

### Filesystem and Safety
Filesystem access and tool execution are unrestricted in this build.

---

## 🎯 Example Workflows

### Workflow 1: Daily Business Tasks
```
# Morning routine (learned tasks)
> generate daily report
> check email and flag important
> backup project files

# Ad-hoc tasks (autonomous)
> Auto: analyze yesterday's sales data and create summary
```

### Workflow 2: Coding Project
```
# Research phase
> Research: best practices for async Python web scraping

# Development phase
> Auto: create an async web scraper for news articles
> Auto: add error handling and logging
> Auto: write unit tests

# Documentation phase
> Auto: generate API documentation from code
```

### Workflow 3: Study System
```
# Planning phase
> Collab: create a study plan for machine learning

# Research phase
> Research: machine learning fundamentals
> Research: best ML frameworks for beginners

# Organization phase
> Auto: organize my study materials by topic
> Auto: create a progress tracking spreadsheet
```

---

## 🐛 Common Issues & Solutions

### Issue: "Codex CLI not found"
**Solution**:
```powershell
# Check installation
Get-Command codex

# If not found, verify PATH or reinstall
```

### Issue: "Authentication failed"
**Solution**:
```powershell
codex login
```
Make sure your ChatGPT Pro subscription is active.

### Issue: "Permission denied"
**Solution**:
Check file/folder permissions on the target path.

### Issue: "Browser automation failed"
**Solution**:
```powershell
.venv\Scripts\activate
playwright install chromium
```

### Issue: "Agent is too slow"
**Solution**:
Reduce timeouts in `.env`:
```env
CODEX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=300
CODEX_REASONING_EFFORT=low
AUTO_MAX_STEPS=15
```

---

## 📊 Monitoring & Maintenance

### Check Agent Performance
```
# View run logs
agent/runs/autonomous/[timestamp]/trace.jsonl

# View playbooks
agent/playbooks/index.json

# View credentials
> creds
```

### Regular Maintenance
1. **Weekly**: Review agent logs, update playbooks
2. **Monthly**: Update dependencies, backup credentials
3. **As needed**: Adjust configuration based on usage

---

## 🎉 Next Steps

### Immediate (Today)
1. ✅ Run `codex login`
2. ✅ Run `playwright install chromium`
3. ✅ Test the agent: `launchers\TREYS_AGENT.bat`
4. ✅ Try: `> create a hello world python script`

### This Week
1. ✅ Learn 3-5 repetitive tasks
2. ✅ Save credentials for common sites
3. ✅ Test autonomous mode with simple tasks
4. ✅ Customize `.env` based on your needs

### This Month
1. ✅ Build a library of playbooks
2. ✅ Use autonomous mode for complex tasks
3. ✅ Integrate into daily workflow

---

## 📞 Support

### Documentation
- `AGENT_SETUP_GUIDE.md` - Complete guide
- `QUICK_REFERENCE.md` - Quick commands
- `SETUP_CHECKLIST.md` - Step-by-step setup

### In-Agent Help
```
> help          # Show all commands
> playbooks     # List saved tasks
> creds         # List credentials
```

### Testing
```powershell
# Test Codex
codex exec "print('Hello from Codex')"

# Test Agent
launchers\TREYS_AGENT.bat
```

---

## 🎯 Summary

Your agent is **fully functional** and ready to use! Here's what you have:

✅ **Multi-mode AI agent** with learning, execution, research, and autonomous capabilities
✅ **Codex CLI integration** for LLM-powered tasks
✅ **Browser automation** with Playwright
✅ **Desktop automation** with PyAutoGUI
✅ **Secure credential storage** with encryption
✅ **Playbook system** for instant task replay
✅ **Comprehensive documentation** (4 guides created)
✅ **Pre-configured settings** in `.env`

**All you need to do**:
1. Authenticate Codex CLI
2. Install Playwright browsers
3. Start using the agent!

**Your agent can now**:
- Automate business tasks
- Build and debug code
- Research topics deeply
- Control your desktop
- Browse the internet
- Learn and remember tasks

**Happy Automating! 🚀**

Commit message:

Align docs to AGENT_BEHAVIOR and clean repo

REVIEW_AND_ACTION_PLAN.md, after:

# 🎯 TREY'S AGENT - Complete Review & Action Plan

**Status:** Historical/Archive. Do not update as a source of truth. See `AGENT_BEHAVIOR.md` and `conductor/tracks.md`.



Source of truth for agent behavior: `AGENT_BEHAVIOR.md`
## ✅ What I Found

### Architecture Overview
Your agent has a **sophisticated multi-mode architecture**:

1. **Execute Mode** - Instant playbook execution (no LLM needed)
2. **Learn Mode** - Records your actions as reusable playbooks
3. **Autonomous Mode** - True AI agent with dynamic replanning
4. **Research Mode** - Deep research with iterative refinement
5. **Collab Mode** - Interactive planning and strategy
6. **Mail Mode** - Supervised email management

### Current Status

#### ✅ Working Components
- Agent launches successfully
- Codex CLI integration (`codex.ps1` detected)
- Python virtual environment configured
- Core dependencies installed
- Credential management system
- Playbook recording/replay system
- Memory management (SQLite + JSON)
- Browser automation framework (Playwright)
- Desktop automation (PyAutoGUI)

#### ⚠️ Needs Configuration
1. **Codex CLI Authentication** - Required for LLM features
2. **Playwright Browsers** - Required for web automation
3. **Environment Variables** - Customize behavior
4. **Initial Learning** - Record your first tasks

---

## 🚀 Immediate Action Items

### 1. Authenticate Codex CLI (5 minutes)
```powershell
codex login
```
This connects the agent to your ChatGPT Pro account.

### 2. Install Playwright Browsers (5 minutes)
```powershell
.venv\Scripts\activate
playwright install chromium
```
This enables web automation features.

### 3. Review Configuration (5 minutes)
Open `.env` and customize:
- `CODEX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS` - How long to wait for responses
- `AUTO_MAX_STEPS` - Max steps in autonomous mode
- `AGENT_MEMORY_EMBED_MODEL` - Embedding model for long-term memory

### 4. Test Basic Functionality (10 minutes)
```powershell
launchers\TREYS_AGENT.bat
```

Then try:
```
> help
> create a hello world python script
> exit
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Created

I've created **4 comprehensive guides** for you:

### 1. `AGENT_SETUP_GUIDE.md` (Complete Guide)
- Full architecture explanation
- Detailed setup instructions
- All configuration options
- Troubleshooting guide
- Best practices
- Example use cases

### 2. `QUICK_REFERENCE.md` (Cheat Sheet)
- Quick command reference
- Common tasks
- Environment variables
- Tips and tricks

### 3. `SETUP_CHECKLIST.md` (Step-by-Step)
- Pre-flight checklist
- Verification tests
- Configuration checklist
- Troubleshooting steps
- Security checklist

### 4. `.env` (Configuration File)
- Pre-configured with recommended settings
- Commented explanations
- Ready to customize

---

## 🎓 Recommended Learning Path

### Phase 1: Learning Mode (Week 1-2)
**Goal**: Teach the agent your workflows

**Tasks**:
1. Learn simple tasks:
   ```
   > Learn: open notepad
   > Learn: organize downloads folder
   ```

2. Save credentials for sites you use:
   ```
   > Cred: yahoo
   > Cred: github
   ```

3. Test playbook execution:
   ```
   > open notepad
   > organize downloads
   ```

**Why**: Playbooks run instantly without LLM calls. Once learned, tasks are fast and reliable.

### Phase 2: Supervised Autonomy (Week 3-4)
**Goal**: Build trust with autonomous mode

**Tasks**:
1. Simple autonomous tasks:
   ```
   > Auto: create a python calculator
   > Auto: organize my desktop files
   ```

2. Review outputs and adjust prompts as needed

3. Use research mode:
   ```
   > Research: Python best practices
   ```

**Why**: You'll see how the agent thinks and plans. Build confidence before full autonomy.

### Phase 3: Full Autonomy (Week 5+)
**Goal**: Let the agent work independently

**Tasks**:
1. Complex multi-step tasks:
   ```
   > Auto: research async Python, create a web scraper, and document it
   ```

2. Business automation:
   ```
   > Auto: analyze my project structure and suggest improvements
   ```

**Why**: Maximum productivity. The agent handles complex tasks while you focus on high-level work.

---

## 🎯 Your Use Cases

Based on your requirements, here's how to use each mode:

### 1. Business Automation
**Best Mode**: Learn + Execute
```
> Learn: generate weekly sales report
> Learn: send status update email
> Learn: backup project files
```

Once learned, run instantly:
```
> generate weekly sales report
> send status update
```

### 2. Coding Projects
**Best Mode**: Autonomous + Research
```
> Research: best practices for REST API design
> Auto: create a REST API with authentication
> Auto: add unit tests to my API
```

### 3. Study Systems
**Best Mode**: Research + Collab
```
> Research: effective study techniques for programming
> Collab: create a study plan for learning machine learning
> Auto: organize my study materials by topic
```

### 4. Desktop Commands
**Best Mode**: Learn + Execute
```
> Learn: organize my downloads
> Learn: backup important files
> Learn: clean temp folders
```

### 5. Internet Browsing
**Best Mode**: Learn + Autonomous
```
> Learn: login to school portal
> Learn: download assignments from Canvas
> Auto: research and summarize latest AI news
```

---

## 🔧 Configuration Recommendations

### For Your Use Case

```env
# === PERFORMANCE ===
CODEX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=600          # 10 minutes for complex tasks
CODEX_REASONING_EFFORT=medium      # Balance speed and quality

# === AUTONOMOUS MODE ===
AUTO_MAX_STEPS=30                  # Enough for complex tasks
AUTO_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=600           # 10 minutes total
AUTO_PLANNER_MODE=auto             # Dynamic replanning
AUTO_ENABLE_WEB_GUI=1              # Enable browser automation
AUTO_ENABLE_DESKTOP=1              # Enable desktop control
AUTO_ALLOW_HUMAN_ASK=1             # Agent can ask questions

# === MEMORY ===
AGENT_MEMORY_EMBED_MODEL=all-MiniLM-L6-v2
AGENT_MEMORY_FAISS_DISABLE=0

# === BEHAVIOR ===
TREYS_AGENT_DEFAULT_MODE=execute   # Default action mode on confirmation
TREYS_AGENT_PROMPT_ON_AMBIGUOUS=0  # Don't ask, just execute
```

---

## 🔐 Security Recommendations

### Credential Management
1. **Save credentials for frequently used sites**:
   ```
   > Cred: yahoo
   > Cred: github
   > Cred: school
   ```

2. **Keep these files secure**:
   - `agent/memory/credential_store.json`
   - `agent/memory/credential_key.key`

3. **Backup regularly** (encrypted)

### Filesystem and Safety
Filesystem access and tool execution are unrestricted in this build.

---

## 🎯 Example Workflows

### Workflow 1: Daily Business Tasks
```
# Morning routine (learned tasks)
> generate daily report
> check email and flag important
> backup project files

# Ad-hoc tasks (autonomous)
> Auto: analyze yesterday's sales data and create summary
```

### Workflow 2: Coding Project
```
# Research phase
> Research: best practices for async Python web scraping

# Development phase
> Auto: create an async web scraper for news articles
> Auto: add error handling and logging
> Auto: write unit tests

# Documentation phase
> Auto: generate API documentation from code
```

### Workflow 3: Study System
```
# Planning phase
> Collab: create a study plan for machine learning

# Research phase
> Research: machine learning fundamentals
> Research: best ML frameworks for beginners

# Organization phase
> Auto: organize my study materials by topic
> Auto: create a progress tracking spreadsheet
```

---

## 🐛 Common Issues & Solutions

### Issue: "Codex CLI not found"
**Solution**:
```powershell
# Check installation
Get-Command codex

# If not found, verify PATH or reinstall
```

### Issue: "Authentication failed"
**Solution**:
```powershell
codex login
```
Make sure your ChatGPT Pro subscription is active.

### Issue: "Permission denied"
**Solution**:
Check file/folder permissions on the target path.

### Issue: "Browser automation failed"
**Solution**:
```powershell
.venv\Scripts\activate
playwright install chromium
```

### Issue: "Agent is too slow"
**Solution**:
Reduce timeouts in `.env`:
```env
CODEX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=300
CODEX_REASONING_EFFORT=low
AUTO_MAX_STEPS=15
```

---

## 📊 Monitoring & Maintenance

### Check Agent Performance
```
# View run logs
agent/runs/autonomous/[timestamp]/trace.jsonl

# View playbooks
agent/playbooks/index.json

# View credentials
> creds
```

### Regular Maintenance
1. **Weekly**: Review agent logs, update playbooks
2. **Monthly**: Update dependencies, backup credentials
3. **As needed**: Adjust configuration based on usage

---

## 🎉 Next Steps

### Immediate (Today)
1. ✅ Run `codex login`
2. ✅ Run `playwright install chromium`
3. ✅ Test the agent: `launchers\TREYS_AGENT.bat`
4. ✅ Try: `> create a hello world python script`

### This Week
1. ✅ Learn 3-5 repetitive tasks
2. ✅ Save credentials for common sites
3. ✅ Test autonomous mode with simple tasks
4. ✅ Customize `.env` based on your needs

### This Month
1. ✅ Build a library of playbooks
2. ✅ Use autonomous mode for complex tasks
3. ✅ Integrate into daily workflow

---

## 📞 Support

### Documentation
- `AGENT_SETUP_GUIDE.md` - Complete guide
- `QUICK_REFERENCE.md` - Quick commands
- `SETUP_CHECKLIST.md` - Step-by-step setup

### In-Agent Help
```
> help          # Show all commands
> playbooks     # List saved tasks
> creds         # List credentials
```

### Testing
```powershell
# Test Codex
codex exec "print('Hello from Codex')"

# Test Agent
launchers\TREYS_AGENT.bat
```

---

## 🎯 Summary

Your agent is **fully functional** and ready to use! Here's what you have:

✅ **Multi-mode AI agent** with learning, execution, research, and autonomous capabilities
✅ **Codex CLI integration** for LLM-powered tasks
✅ **Browser automation** with Playwright
✅ **Desktop automation** with PyAutoGUI
✅ **Secure credential storage** with encryption
✅ **Playbook system** for instant task replay
✅ **Comprehensive documentation** (4 guides created)
✅ **Pre-configured settings** in `.env`

**All you need to do**:
1. Authenticate Codex CLI
2. Install Playwright browsers
3. Start using the agent!

**Your agent can now**:
- Automate business tasks
- Build and debug code
- Research topics deeply
- Control your desktop
- Browse the internet
- Learn and remember tasks

**Happy Automating! 🚀**
